Project Description:

Using Mininet VM, build a simple router that receives ethernet frames, processes them, and routes them using a static routing table. 
The network topology is as follows; We have 2 servers, connected to the router as so; HTTPServer 1 -> Router <- HTTPServer. We also have
a single client which is also connected to the same router as so: Client -> Router. 

Example:

We are provided with 3 scripts: sr_solution, run_mininet, and run_pox. We start by starting run_mininet in one terminal, then start run_pox in another terminal and wait for it to connect.
Then we open another terminal and we can use sr_solution to setup the router to see the expected behaviour. Once sr_solution is running, we can go back to the mininet terminl and run commands like ping, traceroute,
and wget. Without sr_solution, we cannot; Our goal is to replicate the functionality of sr_solution.

Required Functionality:

1) Successfully route packets between internet and application servers.
2) Handle ARP requests and replies
3) Handle traceroutes through router (where router is not end host) and to it (where it is the end host)
4) Respond to ICMP echo requests
5) Maintain ARP cache with 15 second entry timeout
6) Queue all packets waiting for outstanding ARP requests. Drop after 5 attempts and send ICMP host unreachable to sender(s)
7) Router must not needlessly drop packets (e.g. when waiting for ARP reply)
8) Enforce guaranteed response on ARP request timeout; If an ARP request is not responded to, the ICMP host unreachable message is sent even if no more packets arrive at the router (implement in sr_arpcache_sweepreqs)

Logic:

There are 2 main parts to this assignment: ARP handling and IP Forwarding.

IP Forwarding:

Assume we have received a frame containing a packet that is not destined for one of the router's interfaces;

1) Sanity-check packet: Ensure minimum length and correct checksum
2) Decrement TTL and recompute packet checksum over the modified header
3) Using longest prefix matching, search the routing table and retrieve destination IP address
4) Check ARP cache for next-hop MAC address corresponding to the next-hop IP
	4a) If present, continue forwarding
	4b) Else: Send ARP request for next-hop IP (if one hasn't been sent within last second), and add packet to queue of packets waiting on this ARP request.

If error: Send ICMP back to sender notifying them of error.

ARP:
We must cache replies, and expire them after 15 seconds (already implemented). 
When forwarding a packet to next-hop IP address, search ARP cache for next-hop MAC address corresponding to the next-hop IP before sending request.
If cache miss:
	1) Send ARP request once every second to target IP address
	2) If no reply after 5 requests:
		Send ICMP destination host unreachable to all source/sender IP address waiting on a reply to this ARP request

Received ARP Requests and Replies:

If request received: reply if target IP is one of the router's IP addresses. 
If reply received: cache entry if target IP is one of the router's IP addresses.

ARP requests use broadcast MAC address. Use provided ARP request queue to manage ARP request queue.

IP Packet Destinations:

If packet is destined for one of the two router addresses:
	a) if packet is a valid ICMP echo request and checksum is valid: send an ICMP echo reply to the sender host
	b) if packet contains TPD or UDP payload: Send ICMP port unreachable reply to the sender host. Otherwise ignore the packet.
Packets going elsewhere should be routed using standard forwarding logic.

ARP Cache and ARP Request Queue (sr_arpcache.c/h)

When ARP response arrives: remove request from queue and update ARP cache, and forward all formerly waiting packets (Pseudocode in sr_arpcache.h)
Starter code creates a thread that times out ARP entries after 15 seconds. 
Need to implement: sr_arpcache_sweepreqs: iterate through ARP request queue every second and re-send requests if necessary (Pseudocode in sr_arpcache.h)

Basic Functions:
void sr_handlepacket; called by router when packet received (sr_router.c) (do not free buffer)
int sr_send_packet; sneds arbitrary packet of length len using interface specified by char * iface (sr_vns_comm.c)

Data Structures:

Router: struct sr_instance (sr_router.h) - full context of router, including topology, routing table, and list of interfaces
Interfaces: if_list (sr_if.ch) - Use provided utility methods
Routing Table: routing_table (sr_rt.c/h) - Reads table from file and stores in linked list of routing entries in current routing instance

Protocol Headers:

See sr_protocol.h for data structures for manipulating headers.








